Project: Book Club Manager 


When checking the project idea, the instructor will assess the following items: 
(1) Is the project idea already picked up by another group? If so, please propose a different project idea. 
(2) Are there sufficient workloads proposed for each group member? If not, please include more functional or non-functional requirements in the proposal. 
(3) Is the project too large, too vague, or too simple? If so, the instructor will provide further suggestions on refinement of the project idea.

 1.A brief introduction of the software application that you want to build, with some background introduction about the domain and the necessity.
The software application that our group is building is an online book club. The book club can be set up by registered users on our platform and can be a tool for in-person/virtual groups to use.  Within the book club, users are able to connect with others to read, set goals, and converse about their current and future readings. Currently, there is a lack of good software that fosters both reading and connecting with others. Therefore, we are interested in creating a product that improves and creates what is currently available.
2. The potential features that you plan to develop. You can describe the major or most important functional requirements and non-functional requirements. Definitely make sure that everybody will have sufficient workload (e.g., at least four functional requirements and one non-functional requirement for each team member).
	This software will support a variety of functionalities, including website operations such as username and password authentication, and features that will facilitate book club activities like allowing users to interact within a group, read books online, and buy and research books. The following is the list of functionalities that we plan to develop for this software: 
Functional Requirements:
Website stuff
Book club stuff
User Interactions with group
buy/ research books

Allow users to sign up with email, Google, or social media accounts
Password and username to validate registered accounts
Create profile (profile pic/bio)
Ability to create book club group
Add picture to group and create bio
Ability to add/remove users to the group
Set group moderators
Borrow or buy books
Search books
Create a group name for the book club
Set the current book
Set group type (by genre)
Book recommendations(For club or on the general store)
Add books to reading club list
Create polls
Remove/Add books from reading club list (Bookshelf functions)
Set challenges/read by dates (progress)
Read books online (with ability to bookmark, make notes, highlight, set chapter length goals, personalize font, size, colors, etc)
Find local book clubs nearby (register your book club online/on the app)
Submit club thoughts, opinions, reviews about the books as public notes/posts 
Have private chat channels for book clubs to discuss books
Notifications for due dates
Export reading data to external file
Calendar features to see book club dates, deadlines, and community events

Non-functional requirements:

Scalability - should be able to support large number of users and clubs with strong performance
Cross-platform - ability to use on different browsers (google, firefox, bing, etc.)
Security - implement MFA to protect privacy and data information
Availability - access to several different languages
Usability - design should be user-friendly to all users (access for disabilities, etc.)
Performance - all books and features should load within 5 seconds
Data backup - Site should implement regular backups bi-daily to prevent data loss
3. The responsibilities of each team member.
	Jaden: Created slides, wrote up challenges 
Amanda: functional requirements, time management 
Sierra: functional requirements, drawing up the idea
	Skylar: functional requirements, wrote up challenges
	Ty: functional requirements, wrote up possible solutions
	Ben: functional requirements wrote up possible solutions


4. Describe the potential challenges you may face. Basically, try to propose a project idea with some challenges. For instance, the domain is new to you, the workflow is new, or some algorithms are required for further literature survey. 
Trying to implement a shop with shipping nationally would prove to be challenging. 
Making sure the app can handle the amount of users all chatting and rating books at the same time. 
Advertising to the general public. 
Funding for the project and keeping the servers up. 
Feasibility of actually making this. 
Creating a clean aesthetic 
5. Describe the potential strategies you will take to overcome those challenges.
Supporting number of users and main user features
User chat, online book, multiple posts
Advertising to the general public
Funding for the project
Maintaining servers
Feasibility of project scope
Creating a clean aesthetic


Possible solutions:
Project management and scheduling 
Plan scope of project and functionalities
Keeping costs maintainable 
Research CSS/Javascript and website/app builders
Specifically Next.js, React.js, Tailwind CSS
Look into different methods of servers and hosting users


